# Week 4
## Add headerfile stdlib.h liberies for access malloc and strcpy functions.
## Use Valgrind to help debug memory errors.

## Hexadecimal
### Known as base 16, using A to F to represent number above 9, so A = 10 and F = 15, giving 16 different digits including 0s to give 16^2, 256 different values by different patterns. The way it counts is by placing two digits as one unit, the first is the 16's place, the second is the 1's place, so to translate it to decimal, times the first digit by 16 and add the second. Such as 01 = 0+1, 10 = 16+1, 20 = 16*2 + 0, 1A = 16+10, FF = 16*15 +15 etc. This was invented as a more convenient way to represent values as now 1 digit in base 16 can represent 4 bits, such as 1111 = 15 = F, and so 2 digits in base 16 can represent all the possible different values of a byte. 
### In memory locations for example, to avoid problems of mistaking one value as another due to not knowing what base system you are working on, such as 10 can mean 16 in base 16 but it could also mean ten, we add 0x in front of hexadecimal numbers, such as 0x1 and 0x10.

## Memory
### To get the memory address of a variable of where it has been stored in computer, use &(variable), and as they contain letters for base 16, they are as the data type of pointers, or p/* in short, so you can display the location of a variable in memory by printf("%p\n",&(variable));. This should return a long combination of letters and number, which the actual numberical address without the use of base 16 would be much larger in length.
### Pointers
#### To declare a pointer, you need two data types, one to show it is a pointer, and another to show what data type is it pointing to. For example to declare a pointer which to store the address of a variable that stores an integar, we use int* (pointer) = &(variable), int means it is storing the pointer of an integar variable, * means it is a pointer, with then the pointer name, & gets the address of variable. So then later you can simply refer to the pointer name without the name of adding the * nor & before the pointer/variable names.
#### You can also dereference a pointer by reusing *, for example we can printf("%i\n",*p);, which will display the not the address, but the value inside that pointer/address.
#### There are frames of memory, such as when a function that is not main being called, they will have their own chunk of memory for a frame, that means when we pass on values as arguments to a function, it takes the copy of it with it own memory and address, so editing them won't change the original passing on values. To solve this we can use * in parameters to tell the computer that to get the address of the pass on value and so to edit what is in the address of the original value, because even it is a copy, but because of the same address we utilise the fact that changing a pointer's address content also changing the others as long as they share the same address. By passing on address using & and accepting address using *(parameters).

## Strings
### Strings are in fact just pointers to characters, so string (variable); is equivalent to char* (variable);, to create a pointer named (variable) that points to characters, while when you assign the pointer to a sequence of characters it stores the address of the first character, as no need to store every of them as all strings should end with null, \0. For example char* string = "Hi";, then string will be the pointer, storing the address to H, and when you printf("%s\n", string);, it will display the full "Hi" by looping until \0. 
#### If we use %c instead then it will only print out the first character H. We can then add *(string+1) to print out the next character, as string is an address, and * means go to address to get the value. Normally we shouldn't use *string to print full sequences of characters as this means to go to that one address and only get a single character. The %s and without * before string to automatically print all characters before \0 is a special function to printf.
#### The reason why you can compare integar type variables but not string variables would be because there is a variable for integar, a variable for an character but not for a string, so when you compare two strings, you are comparing two pointers, and pointers are numbers as address to the first character, so therefore two address will always be different, and what we actually wanted is to compare the value by the address one by one.

## Memory allocation 
### When you declare two pointers being the same, for example two strings being the same, because pointers are address of memory, so when you declare them as same to each other, editing one pointer's pointing values also affect the other, such as declaring string 1 same as string 2, and the moment you edit string 1 it will also edits string 2 the same way.
### To prevent this situation we can use mallco function, by including headerfile called standard library stdlib.h. The mallco() function works by declaring the amount of bytes of memory inside the () for the values pointing by pointers. For example char* t = malloc(strlen(s)+1);, this means for pointer t, request a unique starting address, but with equal amount of byte spaces as string s, we add +1 for the \0. Afterward we can use a for loop to copy every characters in s to t like for an array, because t already gots it own starting address so any further editing to t won't affect s as they pointing to different address although values being same, we can also simplify this by using strcpy((string1),(string2)).
### You can use sizeof((datatype)) to give you the amount of bytes a single unit of a data type takes, such as int *x = malloc(3 * sizeof(int));, which gives you 12 bytes of spaces for pointer x, to store 3 integars.
### Although when you refer to pointer it only stores one address for one value, but if you treat it like arrays and use pointer[i] then you can modify the content of multiple addresses, it works by getting pointer's address, add i to it to give a new address then unpack the content in that address by *, this can be done safely as long as the size is still inside malloc. It also counts from 0.
### Errors in memory
#### Sometimes there may be situations that the computer returns null or known as \0, one case is if user enters an empty string, then the first character in that string, or the address that pointer pointing to would be null, which should never be modifyed, another case is if user typed in a very long paragraph that get_string simply cannot handle then it will returns NULL, in all capitals, as well, therefore we need to detect and catches them to so react to them avoid touching them.
#### After using malloc, of requesting computer for a specific amount byte of memory for a pointer, after using them we also need to free the memory as well otherwise computers continue running on the program will keep getting slower as they think they don't have enough memory, known as a memory leak. To free the memory for a pointer you use free((pointer)). You only need to free the memory if you manually used malloc, because get_string will automatically do this for you.
#### If you don't give a pointer a pointee, an address where it points to, such as by malloc or by assign two pointer as same, then it will point to an unpredicable garbarge address which should be avoided.
#### There are stack and heap memory and using too much of one could causes stack overflow or out of memory error respectively, stack are the local variable that only exist inside a function, whereas heap are those that can persist outside a function. Pointers as variables addresses stored in stack, but the addresses they point to when using malloc lives in the heap. 
### Valgrind
#### A program to check memory related errors. Run this by typing in terminal valgrind ./(programname). It can show you where memory leaks happens, what line touches illegal memory spaces etc.

## scanf
### To replace get_string, get_ int etc that are only available inside cs50's library, we can use the scanf, it is a library in default c, that is to detect user input to place it at address. Works by scanf("%(datatype)", (address)), this reads the user input as (datatype) and place it in address, to get an address we can declare an empty variable then to use & before it to turn it to its address, we can also create a pointer for strings because a variable for a full string doesn't exist so we can't use it, and as pointers are address so you don't add & before a pointer but just the pointer name. It works similar to printf, that if you use %s, and a pointer, then it will automatically runs through each characters until null and put them from the given address then onward one by one. 

## Reflection
### Can we just use array of characters to replace the need of pointers to string? They works the same by asking for a piece of memory then assign values to it.
#### Yes for most cases, the main differences of them would be that pointer is an address, that we can reassign it to another value(s), whereas arrays you can't point to another value(s). The size of arrays is fixed, you can't expand or reduce the amount space of it. But you can resize pointer using malloc. 

### What is the point of malloc? Can't we just use char*t = *s and edit t and s won't be editted?
#### malloc is one of the ways to give modifiable memory's address to a pointer. It uses heap memory, which are memories that presist. The pointer creates by it can be used across functions like global variables. 
#### char*t = *s would give compile error or heavy warning, because * has two different function and only shows one at a time, char* t means to create a new pointer t, as the address to an character. For now it points to nothing. But as you do *s, as * means to unpack the content address of s, and so will only return a single character, as a pointer only points to one address/value, and because characters are also numbers by their ASCII value, therefore *s will also return a number. And so teh entire line would be, create a pointer, make that point to address that is same as the ASCII value of first character of s, that usually be where unaccessable memory spaces lives so gives error. Which is very different to creating a pointer, point to another memory address that is modifiable, and make every characters in t same as s. Instead we need to use malloc as it gives an independent modifiable memory address for it, then to use strcpy(t,s). Or for non strings you can do int* t = &(variable) as well, with the variable declared beforehand, as & gives the address and variable when declared already gives a modifiable memory address. Note that the memory type is stack memory so it won't exists after program finish.
#### A case of when memory becomes read-only is when char*t = "(string)". Because c detected that you didn't give it an address as otherwise this should be a character or number without "", so it creates an address for the pointer and stores the first character of the string inside. That address is read-only, so you can let it print out what is in the address t pointing to by printf, no need of * because it knows it is a string, but you can't edit the content.
